1978ൽ ഐ.വി ശശി സംവിധാനം ചെയ്ത ഒരു പ്രശസ്ത മലയാളം ചലച്ചിത്രമാണ് ഈറ്റ .കമലഹാസൻ,മധു,ഷീല,സീമ എന്നിവരാണൂ പ്രധാന കധാപാത്രങ്ങൾ.ഇതൊരു ത്രികോണ പ്രണയകഥയാണ്.ഷീലയും സീമയുമൊരുപൊലെ കമൽഹാസനെ പ്രണയിക്കുന്നു. ഈ ചലച്ചിത്രത്തിലെ അഭിനയത്തിനു കമൽഹാസനു നല്ല നടനുള്ള 1978ലെ ഫിലിം ഫെയർ പുരസ്കാരം ലഭിച്ചു. എം.ജി. സോമൻ വില്ലനായ ഗോപാലനെ അവതരീപ്പിക്കുന്നു. കാട്ടിനകത്തെ കുളുർമയുള്ള സീനുകൾ കൊണ്ട് സമ്പന്നമാണ് ഈ ചിത്രം. 
Gopalan is a local owner of cane wholesale business as he purchases the canes from workers and sells them for a high price. But he is a dishonest person as he smuggles in sandalwood too, between cane business. Varuthunni is the chief of workers and they believe Gopalan. Varuthunni's adopted son is Ramu and he is in love with Sreedevi, daughter of Narayanan, co-worker of Varuthunni. Annamma is a widow and she too likes Ramu, even though he is younger to her.
Gopalan gets caught in sandalwood smuggling, but escapes by blaming Varuthunni as the real culprit. The conflict between Varuthunni and Gopalan creates issues among the cane workers and most of them joins hands with Varuthunni as he is an honest person. Workers decides to provide cane only to Varuthunni and not to Gopalan, which hurts Gopalan's business and his equation with his boss.In the meantime Annamma, seduces Ramu and they became intimate.
Gopalan's team destroys Varuthunni's cane stacks and thus issue between the two gets bigger. Sensing the danger of the situation, Gopalan decides to bump off Varuthunni, but this plan was informed to Ramu, who is down by fever by Varuthunni's friend. At the same time, Annamma reveals to Ramu that she is pregnant.
Shattered Ramu, unable to take a decision frantically goes in search of his father Varuthunni to save him from the death plot of Gopalan, but he is beaten to pulp by Gopalan's gang. He traces his father, but before he is informed of the plot, Gopalan shoots Varuthunni, but the bullet hits Ramu as he jumps in front of his father to save him. Shattered, Varuthunni kills Gopalan and Ramu in his last moments requests his father to take care of his child, now carried by Annamma, and dies in the lap of his loving father Varuthunni shattering many dreams and hopes.
ഗാനങ്ങൾ : യൂസഫലി കേച്ചേരി ഈണം :ജി. ദേവരാജൻ
ഈറ്റ
