വംശനാശഭീഷണിയുള്ള ജീവവർഗ്ഗങ്ങളുടെ സംരക്ഷണത്തിനായുള്ള ഒരു ബഹുരാഷ്ട്ര ഉടമ്പടിയാണ് വംശനാശഭീഷണിയുള്ള ജീവവർഗ്ഗങ്ങളുടെ അന്താരാഷ്ട്രവ്യാപാരത്തിനുള്ള ഉടമ്പടി അഥവാ CITES . The convention was opened for signature in 1973 and CITES entered into force on 1 July 1975. Its aim is to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten the survival of the species in the wild, and it accords varying degrees of protection to more than 35,000 species of animals and plants. In order to ensure that the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade was not violated, the Secretariat of GATT was consulted during the drafting process.
As of 2018, Secretary-General of the CITES Secretariat is Ivonne Higuero.
Roughly 5,000 species of animals and 29,000 species of plants are protected by CITES against over-exploitation through international trade. Each protected species or population is included in one of three lists, called appendices . The Appendix that lists a species or population reflects the extent of the threat to it and the controls that apply to the trade.
Appendix I, about 1200 species, are species that are threatened with extinction and are or may be affected by trade. Commercial trade in wild-caught specimens of these species is illegal . Captive-bred animals or cultivated plants of Appendix I species are considered Appendix II specimens, with concomitant requirements . The Scientific Authority of the exporting country must make a non-detriment finding, assuring that export of the individuals will not adversely affect the wild population. Any trade in these species requires export and import permits. The Management Authority of the exporting state is expected to check that an import permit has been secured and that the importing state is able to care for the specimen adequately. Notable animal species listed in Appendix I include the red panda, western gorilla, the chimpanzee species, tigers, Asiatic lion, leopards, jaguar, cheetah, Asian elephant, some populations of African bush elephant, the dugong and manatees, and all rhinoceros species .
Appendix II, about 21,000 species, are species that are not necessarily threatened with extinction, but may become so unless trade in specimens of such species is subject to strict regulation in order to avoid utilization incompatible with the survival of the species in the wild. In addition, Appendix II can include species similar in appearance to species already listed in the Appendices. International trade in specimens of Appendix II species may be authorized by the granting of an export permit or re-export certificate. In practice, many hundreds of thousands of Appendix II animals are traded annually. No import permit is necessary for these species under CITES, although some Parties do require import permits as part of their stricter domestic measures. A non-detriment finding and export permit are required by the exporting Party.
In addition, Article VII of CITES states that specimens of animals listed in Appendix I that are bred in captivity for commercial purposes are treated as Appendix II. The same applies for specimens of Appendix I plants artificially propagated for commercial purposes.
Examples of species listed on Appendix II are the great white shark, the American black bear, Hartmann's mountain zebra, green iguana, queen conch, Emperor scorpion, Mertens' water monitor, bigleaf mahogany and lignum vitae "ironwood" .
Appendix III, about 170 species, are species that are listed after one member country has asked other CITES Parties for assistance in controlling trade in a species. The species are not necessarily threatened with extinction globally. In all member countries, trade in these species is only permitted with an appropriate export permit and a certificate of origin from the state of the member country who has listed the species.
Examples of species listed on Appendix III and the countries that listed them are the two-toed sloth  by Costa Rica, sitatunga by Ghana, African civet by Botswana, and alligator snapping turtle by the USA.
===Approach to biodiversity conservation===.
From 2005 – 2009 the legal trade corresponded with these numbers
In the 1990s the annual trade of legal animal products was $160 billion annually. In 2009 the estimated value almost doubled to $300 billion.
The Conference of the Parties is held once every three years. The last Conference of the Parties was held in Johannesburg, South Africa, and the one before it was held in Bangkok, Thailand, in 2013. The next one will be in Sri Lanka in 2019. The location of the next CoP is chosen at the close of each CoP by a secret ballot vote.
The CITES Committees hold meetings during each year that does not have a CoP, while the Standing committee meets also in years with a CoP. The Committee meetings take place in Geneva, Switzerland, unless another country offers to host the meeting. The Animals and Plants Committees have sometimes held joint meetings. The previous joint meeting was held in March 2012 in Dublin, Ireland, and the latest one was held in Veracruz, Mexico in May 2014.
A current list of upcoming meetings appears on the CITES calendar at http://www.cites.org/eng/news/calendar.php.

